1. What is Web Service?
 A. Web Services helps to communicate with multiple application to communicate with each other. 

2. How does a web service work?
 A. A web service is used to communicate among various applications by using open standards such as 
	HTML, XML,JSON, WSDL, and SOAP.


3. What are the advantages of web services?
 A. It independent of any specific programming language, helps web application to interact 
	each other applications (Mobile Apps / Desktop Applications /Web Applications)



4. What are the different types of web services?
 A. There are two types of web services:
    SOAP
    RESTful



5. What are the main features of web services?
 
6. What is SOAP?
 A. SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol. It is a XML-based protocol for accessing web services.

7. What are the advantages of SOAP web services?
 A. 
    WS Security
    Language Independent
    Platform Independent




8. What are the disadvantages of SOAP web services?
 A. 
    Slow
    WSDL Dependent



9. What is WSDL?
 A. WSDL stands for Web Services Description Language. It is a xml document containing information about web services
	 such as method name, method parameter etc.






10. What is RESTful web services?
 A. REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer. It is a architectural style. It is not a protocol like SOAP.








11. What are the advantages of RESTful web services?
 A. 
    Fast
    Language Independent
    Platform Independent
    Can use SOAP.
    Allows different data format.






12. What tools are used to test web services?
 A. SoapUI tool for testing SOAP and RESTful web services
    Poster/Requester for firefox browser
    Postman extension for Chrome




    


13. What is Interoperability in Web services?

 A. Web services facilitate various applications to communicate with each other and share data and services among 
	themselves. Other applications can also use the web services. For example, a VB or .NET application can 
	communicate with a Java web services and vice versa. Web services are used to make the application platform
	 and technology independent.






